General Assignment Reporter, HuffPost
Attention, wearers of white lab coats: You are now in the running to be Kim Kardashian’s next boyfriend. (Watch the video below.)
The reality star told “The Late Late Show” host James Corden on Wednesday that she needed to “chill a minute” after she and comedian Pete Davidson broke up. But when it’s time, be ready, men of medicine and science!
Kardashian explained that she needed to branch out because “clearly it’s not working, whatever I’m doing.”
“Maybe like a hospital and meet a doctor?” she said.
“I think it’s gonna be, like, scientist, neuroscientist, biochemist, doctor, attorney ― that’s maybe what I envision in the future,” she continued.
We're bringing you the exclusives, scoops and hot takes on the news all your friends are talking about. Join our loyalty program to support our work and go ad-free.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages.
Kardashian, who was promoting the Season 2 premiere of “The Kardashians” this month, also told a funny story about her “bitch” mom Kris Jenner upstaging her at a fashion shoot.
By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.