Assignment Editor, HuffPost
It’s Labor Day weekend and this California bear is ready to relax.
A Simi Valley homeowner was stunned on Saturday when he looked outside and saw a black bear cooling off in his pool.
“I just happened to look over the window and I thought it was a person swimming in the pool,” Mike Emanuel told Fox 11 Los Angeles. “I was like, ‘Who the hell was in the swimming pool?’”
In a video, the bear can be seen soaking by the edge of the pool for a while, before climbing out and wandering off. 
Emanuel said he watched for a few minutes and then called the non-emergency police line because he wasn’t sure what to do. 
“I said, ‘Hey there’s a bear in my pool,’ and then they asked me if I had been drinking,” he said. 
VIDEO: Bear swims in a pool in Simi Valley. Homeowner says when he called the authorities to tell them what was in the backyard they asked him if he’d been drinking. Same bear has been spotted in neighborhood all weekend. High was 108 today @FOXLA pic.twitter.com/r1Ei0E3Tug
Temperatures soared to a high of 108 degrees in Simi Valley over the weekend, so Emanuel said it was fair enough the bear wanted to take a dip. 
“He’s welcome in my yard as long as he doesn’t kill me or my family,” he quipped.
On Sunday, authorities were contacted because a bear wandered into another person’s kitchen through an open door and started eating food that had been left out. It was likely the same animal, police said.
The next four years will change America forever. But HuffPost won't back down when it comes to providing free and impartial journalism.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless newsroom. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages.
Authorities reminded locals not to approach bears or get in their way.
“Bears will generally find food and go back to their habitats,” the California Department of Fish and Wildlife said in a release. “Please do not approach any bears if seen. Although cute, they are still wild animals.”
By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.