
Alain Robert, a free solo climber known as the “French Spider-Man,” celebrated his 60th birthday in a big way.
Robert, who has climbed several large buildings in the world including the Burj Khalifa and the Empire State Building, climbed the Tour TotalEnergies skyscraper in Paris on Saturday, French news site Defense 92 reported.
Robert, who turned 60 years old in August, scaled the 48-story building in 60 minutes, according to the news site.
Saturday’s feat is reportedly the 12th time Robert has climbed the building, which rises roughly 614 feet above the ground.
The climber revealed to Reuters that he promised himself several years ago that he would climb the building for the occasion because 60 symbolizes France’s retirement age.
“I want to send people the message that being 60 years is nothing. You can still do sport, be active, do fabulous things,” Robert told Reuters.
Alain Robert, the free climber dubbed the French 'Spiderman,' scaled the Tour TotalEnergies, a 48-story skyscraper in Paris, to celebrate his 60th birthday https://t.co/kotWiUuSrU pic.twitter.com/WRClkrdQgW
Robert said he made the climb to raise awareness for global warming and compared the trek up the building to “a ladder,” according to Defense 92.
The news site reported that he dealt with the building’s metal window frames using “plasters” on his fingers and “a bit of tackle to reduce perspiration” during the climb.
The next four years will change America forever. But HuffPost won't back down when it comes to providing free and impartial journalism.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless newsroom. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages.
He’s climbed several iconic structures over the years, including the Eiffel Tower, the Sydney Opera House, Taipei 101, the Petronas Towers and Willis Tower.
Robert has no plans to give up on his passion, Defense 92 reported.
“I will still continue as long as I am in good health,” Robert told the outlet, according to Google Translate.
By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.