Senior Reporter, HuffPost
Michigan Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson (D) said Sunday she and other election officials around the nation are concerned about “violence and disruption” as November’s midterm elections approach.
Benson, Michigan’s top official tasked with maintaining election integrity, made the comments on CBS’ “Face the Nation,” telling host Major Garrett there was great concern about “the ongoing spread of misinformation.” 
“Which of course fuels the potential for additional threats, harassment and even violence on Election Day,” she added.
Michigan Sec. of State Jocelyn Benson says she and other secretaries of state are worried about “violence and disruption on Election Day” and the “spread of misinformation.” pic.twitter.com/Ck2wKham8B
Her comments come amid heated dialogue from both parties. President Joe Biden has been touring the nation, decrying extreme factions of the GOP that have embraced Donald Trump’s “MAGA” ideology. Trump and his surrogates have in turn excoriated Biden as “hateful and divisive.”
Benson said Sunday election officials on both sides of the political spectrum were working “day and night” with law enforcement and other partners to “protect the sanctity of the polling place and protect the integrity of our democracy” heading into November. 
“It’s also important to note that we’ve been doing this work now for close to two years, or over two years, and we’ve been succeeding really at every turn. Democracy prevailed in 2020,” she said. “So, we are in many ways even more prepared this year than ever before, than ― even than we were in 2020, to ensure that we are eliminating, mitigating or certainly protecting the system against any potential disruptions.” 
The next four years will change America forever. But HuffPost won't back down when it comes to providing free and impartial journalism.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless newsroom. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages.
Michigan Sec. of State Benson welcomes questions about the election process: “The more transparency we have on the process...the more people can understand, really, how much work has gone into protecting the security and accessibility of elections for every voter.” pic.twitter.com/moUs038GYc
Garrett went on to ask if voters should remain curious about election integrity going into the midterms. Benson agreed, saying officials welcomed “questions based on evidence” but said voters should reject efforts to create political instability through disinformation and fear mongering.
“What’s really happened over the last few years is this growth of factless misinformation or allegations based not on evidence, but on aspersions, and really geared towards furthering partisan agendas, and delegitimizing democracy itself,” she said.
By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.