Senior Reporter, HuffPost
Woof — it’s been a long, long week. We don’t have to tell you that.
Perhaps you feel like you’ve been working like a dog. If so, may we offer you the internet equivalent of a big pile of catnip? We refer, of course, to another helping of hilarious tweets about pets.
Each week, we scour Twitter to find the funniest quips and bon mots about our furballs being complete goofballs. They’re sure to make you howl.
(No need to beg for more ― you can check out last week’s batch right here.)
not to victim blame but if my cat didn’t want 100 smooches then she shouldn’t look so stinking cute
sometimes you leave your office and you come back and find your cat leading a discussion in your discord pic.twitter.com/iMkmTAIdkm
don't be fooled by how cute this picture is. he is charging up his violence via photosynthesis pic.twitter.com/M2dElSQRFT
Until you have a dog you don't understand what could be eaten.
Beagle puppies rescued from a medical testing facility got to meet Snoopy. (OC) pic.twitter.com/c9HZ4y0Xcd
damn that hits pic.twitter.com/uU5eml6lUO
*wife from the next room*"I hope you haven't spent all your months wages on something expensive and unnecessary again" Me: pic.twitter.com/tuK01s6jCa
reading books is not enough, I need a Jack Russell terrier in full costume to act them out
FRAUD ALERT: Local woman makes conflicting statements about her cat, claiming he is both a "big strong man" and a "tiny potato boy". pic.twitter.com/79lsZhu52T
Greeting humans vs their dogs pic.twitter.com/NeGbEtd1n8
From the dog’s medical chart: pic.twitter.com/ZYlaxjEZQq
orange cats are so elite like sorry to the other cats but facts are facts
if your having a hard time right now here is a picture of my cat in a bee costume. it never fails to make me laugh pic.twitter.com/PpR8S7Lv9e
pic.twitter.com/YlpmoLsVkq
Decision making is the worst pic.twitter.com/YbzQn5v27m
my dog to the puddle of brown oily water on the side of the road pic.twitter.com/7HgTi0DHWT
pic.twitter.com/80I6YoyVfq
the joy and excitement that i feel for my cat when his one working brain cell powers up to find a toy under a bookcase we haven’t seen in months
Cats and their tiny crocheted couches pic.twitter.com/jmdSF2zn5s
they’re on a journey pic.twitter.com/fjILQKLp6g
We're bringing you the exclusives, scoops and hot takes on the news all your friends are talking about. Join our loyalty program to support our work and go ad-free.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages.
The best workout is a deep squat to pet a stray cat
This is Hank. He would like you to throw his ball. But also do not take it from him. It's a simple request. 12/10 pic.twitter.com/dGP6cq4Ate
What did I just see? #dog #dogs #goldenretriever pic.twitter.com/eS0gPfEtBr
By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.