Deputy Editor, Trends, HuffPost
A couple of kangaroos were caught on camera in a quarrel that quickly got crazy. 
It’s not clear what the duo were dueling over in the fight filmed in Australia’s Mount Taylor Nature Reserve, in Canberra’s south. 
But one of the roos must have realized it was messing with the wrong marsupial when it was flung through a metal fence in a move that looked like something out of a video game or pro wrestling. 
The victor even paused to stare down his fallen foe:
Julian Doak was out at Mount Taylor Nature Reserve when he came across the sparring kangaroos and captured the fight on camera.Watch more videos from Sky News: https://t.co/8xyWy1V0ro pic.twitter.com/k2QXNk4w2U
Julian Doak told Storyful he filmed the fight to show family members. 
“The two ’roos were having a biffo in front of me and I thought it’d be funny to get a video for family overseas, to show them an average Aussie slice of life,” he was quoted as saying. 
The next four years will change America forever. But HuffPost won't back down when it comes to providing free and impartial journalism.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless newsroom. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages.
He added that the defeated kangaroo was seen “bouncing down the road” later. 
H/T Digg
By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.