Senior Reporter, HuffPost
A fast-moving wildfire near California’s Big Bear Lake grew thousands of acres overnight, killing at least two people and forcing more than 3,200 homes to evacuate.
Fire officials said the Fairview Fire, in the San Bernardino Mountains about 80 miles from Los Angeles, grew more than 500 acres in an hour after it sparked near the town of Hemet, California. The fire had spread to 2,000 acres by Monday evening, destroying seven structures and prompting emergency warnings for local communities.
The blaze is just 5% contained. The cause is still under investigation.
#FairviewFIRE UPDATE - The fire is 2,000 acres and 5% contained. pic.twitter.com/FrykUX7sqU
All schools in the Hemet Unified School District were closed Tuesday until conditions improve.
A second fire, the Mill Fire, killed two people this weekend in Northern California. That conflagration has burnt nearly 11,500 acres and is just 20% contained.
The wildfires, among many burning across the United States, come amid soaring temperatures and a blistering heat wave in California. Temperatures topped 100 degrees Fahrenheit in some areas and officials declared a power grid emergency on Monday afternoon as millions cranked air conditioners to stay cool.
The next four years will change America forever. But HuffPost won't back down when it comes to providing free and impartial journalism.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless newsroom. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages.
The state’s power authorities warned of potential power outages unless consumers doubled or tripled their efforts to conserve electricity.
By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.