
A Nebraska man fishing in a tournament got more than he bargained for after casting his line into the Missouri River earlier this month.
Andy Moore was fishing west of Yankton, South Dakota, when he snagged a rock in the water and kayaked over to take a closer look, reported NBC affiliate WOWT.
“I get up to it, and I’m like, ‘Oh wow! That’s kind of cool,’” Moore told the outlet.
“I thought it was a big catfish skeleton or a deer skeleton. Something told me to take a picture of this.”
Moore shared pictures of the object online, WOWT said, and someone reached out to suggest that it could be a prehistoric fossil.
The fisherman later contacted a biologist with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, who confirmed to WOWT that Moore’s find seems to be a predator fish fossil that is up to 90 million years old.
The next four years will change America forever. But HuffPost won't back down when it comes to providing free and impartial journalism.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless newsroom. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages.
“I’m still kind of mind-blown about the whole thing,” Moore said.
The fossil won’t be underwater anymore, as it’s now being prepared for display at the Lewis and Clark Visitor Center in Crofton, Nebraska.
By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.