
A New Orleans nun has been found alive after she was kidnapped during an armed home raid in Burkina Faso in April, The Times-Picayune reported.
Sister Suellen Tennyson, a Roman Catholic nun, was kidnapped when 10 men entered a home she was sharing with two other nuns and two Burkinabè women, according to Bishop Theophile Nare of the Kaya Diocese.
The 83-year-old nun reportedly “found her calling” through work in the West African country, ministering to starving and malnourished children, the newspaper reported. She had stayed in Burkina Faso despite calls to leave amid recent violence, according to the newspaper.
Tennyson is now in Niamey, Niger — roughly 160 miles from where she was kidnapped in Yalgo, Burkina Faso — and in U.S. hands, according to a letter sent to members of Tennyson’s order, the Marianites of Holy Cross, and obtained by The Times-Picayune. The letter does not explain how she was discovered or include information on her condition.
The nun was held by kidnappers for nearly five months and is worn out from the experience, according to Sister Ann Lacour, the congregational leader of the Marianites of Holy Cross.
“I told her how much people love her, and she doesn’t have anything to worry about. I told her, ‘You are alive and safe. That’s all that matters,’” Lacour told the Clarion Herald, the newspaper of the Archdiocese of New Orleans. 
The next four years will change America forever. But HuffPost won't back down when it comes to providing free and impartial journalism.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless newsroom. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages.
“Thanks be to God!!!!” the archdiocese wrote on its Facebook page Tuesday.
The Marianites did not immediately respond to a HuffPost request for further comment.
By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.