Senior Culture Reporter, HuffPost
Harry Styles may be in the midst of a Hollywood publicity tour and a grueling concert residency, but he still found time to honor his homeland’s late monarch, Queen Elizabeth II, with an emotional tribute. 
The British pop star paused his concert at New York’s Madison Square Garden Thursday to acknowledge the queen, who died earlier that day at age 96. 
“There’s some very sad news today: the passing of Queen Elizabeth II,” Styles told the crowd, as seen in footage shared by iHeart Radio. “Please join me in a round of applause for 70 years of service.”
A post shared by iHeartRadio (@iheartradio)
Styles, who was born in Redditch, England, has dominated global headlines this week. In addition to his sold-out “Harry’s House” concert residency, he’s set to appear on the big screen alongside Chris Pine and Florence Pugh in “Don’t Worry Darling,” which hits theaters later this month. 
“Don’t Worry Darling” premiered to major fanfare at the 2022 Venice Film Festival in Italy earlier this week, but its rollout has been anything but smooth.
Olivia Wilde, the film’s director and Styles’ girlfriend, has repeatedly attempted to shut down rumors of a behind-the-scenes fallout between her and Pugh. However, Pugh was noticeably absent from a press conference that preceded the Venice screening and won’t be attending the movie’s New York premiere, set to take place Sept. 19. 
We're bringing you the exclusives, scoops and hot takes on the news all your friends are talking about. Join our loyalty program to support our work and go ad-free.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages.
As for Styles, he was the subject of heated online debate this week after a video that appeared to show him spitting on Pine went viral online. Pine’s representative has since dismissed the claim, while Styles himself poked fun at the footage at a Wednesday concert. 
Whether “Don’t Worry Darling” succeeds critically and commercially remains to be seen. However, Styles will get another opportunity to prove his thespian chops when he appears in the romantic drama “My Policeman,” due out in October. 
By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.