Trends Reporter, HuffPost
Staunch Donald Trump ally Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) ominously warned Sunday of “riots in the streets” if the former president is hit with charges for taking classified documents to his Mar-a-Lago home when he moved out of the White House.
“If there’s a prosecution of Donald Trump for mishandling classified information, after the [Hillary] Clinton debacle … there’ll be riots in the streets,” Graham said on Fox News’ “Sunday Night in America,” hosted by former South Carolina congressman Trey Gowdy (R).
Graham was referring to Clinton’s use of a private email server when she was secretary of state — a practice reportedly employed by both Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner to conduct official business when they were White House senior advisers in the Trump administration.
A three-year investigation into some 30,000 recovered messages sent to and from Clinton on the server concluded that there was no “persuasive evidence of systemic, deliberate mishandling of classified information.”
In Trump’s case, after officials tried for several months to retrieve U.S. documents from him, FBI agents this month confiscated several boxes of material stashed at Mar-a-Lago, including classified documents and even highly sensitive top-secret information.
Graham says there will be riots in the streets if Trump is prosecuted pic.twitter.com/oE6MyuqjeA
Trump was captured in a recorded phone call telling Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger to “find” just enough votes for him after the 2020 presidential election to change his loss into a victory. “Fellas, I need 11,000 votes. Give me a break,” Trump pleaded.
Graham is currently battling a subpoena to appear before the grand jury in that probe. The probe, launched by Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis, has been expanded to look into the alleged involvement of a Trump ally in the suspected breach of voting equipment in the state.
Graham insisted to Gowdy that Trump is treated with a “double standard.”
“Most Republicans, including me, believe when it comes to Trump, there is no law. It’s all about getting him,” Graham told Gowdy.
Critics on Twitter were outraged by yet another threat of violence during investigations into suspected crimes.
This is a threat. The Senate should censure him.
So you are saying Republicans are very violent people who do not believe in law and order?Nice threat, Lindsey. And very revealing of your consciousness of guilt.The truth is most Americans will celebrate just like we did when we kicked Trump’s ass to the curb. https://t.co/Y00vKCyvfz
 pic.twitter.com/MttQWqgqg5
The next four years will change America forever. But HuffPost won't back down when it comes to providing free and impartial journalism.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless newsroom. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages.
But I was repeatedly told only “Antifa” and “BLM” do riots on the streets.
If this is their best defense for violating the espionage act then they know he’s guilty AF.
Worth mentioning that he said it again at the end of the interview after he was asked about his subpoena and saying “I love the law”
By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.