Breaking News Reporter, HuffPost
Sen. Tim Scott (R-S.C.) on Sunday dismissed concerns about struggling swing-state Republican Senate candidates whose defeat in November could doom GOP hopes of winning control of the chamber. 
“The players are on the field. We’re eight weeks away, which is kind of like saying we’re in the last two minutes of the fourth quarter,” Scott told “Fox News Sunday.” “So, the truth is, who we have on the field is who we’re gonna play.”
Scott added he was “excited” about the Republican nominees and projected optimism about the party’s chance of winning Senate control in November.
“I’m excited about the candidates that we have overall, because I do believe it gives us the opportunity to win back the majority and to return sanity in Washington, which will reverberate around the country,” Scott said.
Last month, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) cited GOP “candidate quality” as a factor in the election. He acknowledged that the GOP had a greater likelihood of winning control of the House than the Senate.
“Senate races are just different — they’re statewide. Candidate quality has a lot to do with the outcome,” McConnell told reporters.
McConnell’s comments have drawn criticism from factions of his own party, including Sen. Rick Scott (R-Fla.), the head of the Senate GOP campaign arm, who told Politico he and McConnell have a “strategic disagreement” over this.
Rick Scott downplayed criticism of inexperienced GOP Senate candidates in an opinion piece for the Washington Examiner — without specifically mentioning McConnell.
“If you want to trash-talk our candidates to help the Democrats, pipe down,” the Florida Republican wrote. “That’s not what leaders do. And Republicans need to be leaders that build up the team and do everything they can to get the entire team over the finish line.”
Tim Scott on Sunday also rejected concerns that the Supreme Court decision overturning Roe v. Wade has energized voters against the GOP in November.
“I actually think that the momentum is in fact heading in our direction,” Scott told “Fox News Sunday,” noting that Republican candidates, including Mehmet Oz in Pennsylvania, Herschel Walker in Georgia and J.D. Vance in Ohio, have made gains in recent weeks.
Tim Scott also criticized President Joe Biden for condemning extremist Republicans backing former President Donald Trump’s “make America great again” ideology.
The next four years will change America forever. But HuffPost won't back down when it comes to providing free and impartial journalism.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless newsroom. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages.
“Why would we have the president of the United States deliver a soul-crushing speech that was unnecessary, polarizing and inflammatory,” Scott said. “We have done better, we will do better and that’s why elections have consequences.” 
By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.