
Actor Johnny Depp made his first on-camera appearance in months at the MTV Video Music Awards on Sunday.
The actor, who was awarded more $10 million in damages in a defamation lawsuit against ex-wife Amber Heard in June, made a cameo as the ceremony’s signature Moon Person award (formerly known as a Moonman). Depp has won five MTV Movie Awards over the years.
Depp’s face appeared virtually inside of an astronaut that floated down from the Prudential Center’s ceiling on multiple occasions.
“And you know what? I needed the work,” Depp said during his first appearance of the night.
Depp continued to pop up throughout the ceremony, remarking, “Let’s get back to the music, shall we?” after an intermission during the show.
TMZ and The New York Post first reported Depp’s possible appearance at the awards ceremony.
You can watch clips of Depp’s appearances below.
@JohnnyDeppNFT #johnnydepp as the moon man “I needed to work”! pic.twitter.com/dGJuXrXUYo
#VMAs said “how do we keep them engaged?”✋ “I know, sprinkle snippets of Johnny Depp throughout” pic.twitter.com/NkfwuotIbs
Depp also shared a video on Instagram showing his head virtually imposed into the astronaut suit.
Depp joked with viewers that he’s “available” to be booked at events including birthday parties and wakes.
Depp’s appearance occurred after a multimillion-dollar case against Heard centered on a 2018 Washington Post op-ed in which she described herself as a survivor of domestic violence, a statement that Depp argued was defamatory to him.
Last month, a judge denied Heard’s request for a mistrial, but her legal team is still appealing the verdict. Depp’s attorneys have meanwhile filed a notice to appeal a separate verdict that awarded Heard $2 million, also for defamation. 
In addition to his VMAs appearance, Depp’s post-trial gigs include a joint album with musician Jeff Beck, his first directorial role in a quarter of a century, a role as King Louis IV and a seven-figure multi-year deal with Dior.
We're bringing you the exclusives, scoops and hot takes on the news all your friends are talking about. Join our loyalty program to support our work and go ad-free.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages.
CORRECTION: A previous version of this article stated that Johnny Depp has five Video Music Award wins. He has won five MTV Movie Awards.
By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.