Trends Reporter, HuffPost
Two Las Vegas-based podcasts are joining efforts to offer a $100,000 reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of rapper Tupac Shakur’s killer.
The whopping offer from “The Problem Solver” podcast comes after Tuesday marked 26 years since the death of one of the most influential and prolific figures in hip-hop, the show confirmed Sunday.
The podcast’s host, David Kohlmeier, announced that he was offering $50,000 for information that would lead to the hip-hop legend’s killer finally being locked up. 
Subsequently, Kohlmeier’s reward was matched by Jon Orlando of “The Action Junkeez” podcast, making the reward in a total of $100,000. 
On September 7, 1996, Shakur was struck by four bullets in a drive-by shooting at an intersection near the Las Vegas Strip while leaving a Mike Tyson match at the MGM Grand. 
He died six days later in the hospital at the age of 25.
Although the murder case remains unresolved, Duane “Keffe D” Davis reportedly previously confessed to being involved in Tupac’s killing to the Los Angeles Police Department. 
We're bringing you the exclusives, scoops and hot takes on the news all your friends are talking about. Join our loyalty program to support our work and go ad-free.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages.
Anyone with information is encouraged to contact “The Problem Solver Show” at 702-999-1111. There is also an anonymous hotline: 1-833-TIPSCASH (847-7227).
By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.