Trends Reporter
Oscar-winning actor Viola Davis just added another notch to her belt — by becoming a bonafide action star. 
But at times, she thought it might kill her, she told Jimmy Fallon Wednesday on “The Tonight Show”.
Davis was talking about her role in “The Woman King,” a historical epic about the female Agojie warrior squad who protected the West African kingdom of Dahomey in the 1800s. It required relentless training, she said.
“Let me tell you something,” Davis told Fallon. “I was 56 when I trained to be this warrior ... Five hours a day, hour and a half of weight training, three and a half hours of martial arts, punching, 10.0 on the treadmill.”
“And as I was running on the treadmill, Jimmy,” she continued, “I said, ‘I’m gonna have a damn heart attack.’”
Directed by Gina Prince-Bythewood and filmed in South Africa, “The Woman King” stars Davis as the Agojie leader General Nanisca and John Boyega as tribal King Ghezo, according to AV Club. Davis said the project spent seven years gathering dust before it got off the ground. 
“You gotta see it because let me tell you something,” Davis said. “From the very moment the movie opens, you are on a ride.”
Davis told Fallon if anybody ever bothered him, she “can take care of it” with her newfound prowess. “There is nothing like looking at a 250-pound man with a machete coming at you” to sharpen the defenses, she said.
We're bringing you the exclusives, scoops and hot takes on the news all your friends are talking about. Join our loyalty program to support our work and go ad-free.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages.
“They yell action and that’s it,” she said. “You are on that man, you have your sword, he has his, and you’ve got to do it. You gotta take care of yourself.”
Watch Viola Davis on “The Tonight Show” below:
By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.