
The families of victims and survivors of the deadly Uvalde school shooting are planning to file a multi-billion dollar class action lawsuit against a number of law enforcement agencies and a gun manufacturer, according to California-based law firm Bonner & Bonner.
The $27 billion lawsuit looks to name a number of agencies ― including school and local police, sheriffs, Texas Rangers, U.S. Border Patrol and the Texas Department of Safety – along with the manufacturer of the gun used in the shooting, attorney Charles Bonner told KSAT-TV.
The lawsuit is also expected to name the city of Uvalde, the Uvalde school board, the Uvalde city council and Oasis Outback, the shop where the accused gunman purchased the weapon, KSAT-TV reported.
Criticism over law enforcement’s response to the shooting that killed 19 students and two teachers at Robb Elementary has been mounting for months. The lawsuit is expected to allege “numerous failures” by the Uvalde school district along with law enforcement, KENS-TV reported.
“People have a right to life under the 14th Amendment and what we’ve seen here is that the law enforcement agencies have shown a deliberate conscious disregard of the life,” said Bonner.
Bonner & Bonner expects to represent roughly a dozen families and hopes the lawsuit will find its “longer-term goal” of creating a fund to cover psychological treatment for victims.
The next four years will change America forever. But HuffPost won't back down when it comes to providing free and impartial journalism.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless newsroom. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages.
Bonner said he expects the lawsuit to be filed in September following the Justice Department’s shooting investigation.
“Everyone in this world are hurting and bleeding about what is happening here in Uvalde. And it’s up to us to make sure it doesn’t happen again,” he told KSAT-TV.
By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.