
Arcade Fire lead singer Win Butler has been accused of sexual misconduct by multiple people, according to an extensive report by Pitchfork.
The outlet reports that three women who said they had sexual interactions with Butler between 2016 and 2020 came to feel the interactions “were inappropriate given the gaps in age, power dynamics, and context in which they occurred.”
The women were fans of the band and between the ages 18 and 23, Pitchfork reports, while Butler was in his late 30s when the situations occurred.
A fourth person, who uses they/them pronouns and identifies as gender-fluid, alleged that they were sexually assaulted by Butler twice in 2015, Pitchfork reports. 
The person claimed the first sexual assault occurred while they were in a car and the second sexual assault occurred when he came to their apartment despite multiple texts telling him not to come over.
The musician, who is married to and has a son with Arcade Fire co-founder Régine Chassagne, wrote in a statement provided to Pitchfork that he had “consensual relationships outside” his marriage.
Butler disputed ever touching “a woman against her will” and denied forcing himself onto a woman or demanding “sexual favors.”
Pitchfork reports that the musician responded to the publication’s request for comment through crisis public relations expert Risa Heller, once a spokeswoman for Harvey Weinstein and Mario Batali.
“I’m sorry,” Butler wrote.
“I’m sorry for the pain I caused — I’m sorry I wasn’t more aware and tuned in to the effect I have on people — I fucked up, and while not an excuse, I will continue to look forward and heal what can be healed, and learn from past experiences. I can do better and I will do better,” Butler continued
We're bringing you the exclusives, scoops and hot takes on the news all your friends are talking about. Join our loyalty program to support our work and go ad-free.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages.
Read Pitchfork’s full report.
Need help? Visit RAINN’s National Sexual Assault Online Hotline or the National Sexual Violence Resource Center’s website.
By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.