Senior Reporter, HuffPost
An Irish regulator fined Meta, the parent company of Facebook, more than $400 million for violations of data privacy laws related to information about children on Instagram.
The Irish Data Protection Commission levied the fine against Meta for violations of the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, earlier this month, Politico first reported. The privacy law was implemented in 2018 and gives special protection to children’s data linked to social media accounts, video games and other internet sites.
The New York Times added the Irish regulator first opened an investigation in 2020 amid reports Instagram made the accounts of users aged 13 and 17 public by default, as well as allowing teens with business accounts on the app to publicize their email addresses and phone numbers. Many of those business accounts were linked to aspiring influencers, the Times reported.
It’s the second-highest fine ever handed down under the GDPR, after a $742 million penalty against Amazon.
Meta said it had since updated its privacy settings and “released many new features to help keen teens safe and their information private.” It said it planned to appeal the decision.
“Anyone under 18 automatically has their account set to private when they join Instagram, so only people they know can see what they post, and adults can’t message teens who don’t follow them,” the company told Politico in a statement. “We engaged fully with the DPC throughout their inquiry, and we’re carefully reviewing their final decision.”
It’s the third time Meta has faced fines in Ireland. The Times notes the social media behemoth has its European headquarters in the country, which requires Irish regulators to uphold the European Union’s GDPR standards. 
The next four years will change America forever. But HuffPost won't back down when it comes to providing free and impartial journalism.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless newsroom. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
You've supported HuffPost before, and we'll be honest — we could use your help again. We won't back down from our mission of providing free, fair news during this critical moment. But we can't do it without you.
For the first time, we're offering an ad-free experience to qualifying contributors who support our fearless journalism. We hope you'll join us.
Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages.
The company was fined $223 million last year for violations on its messaging platform, WhatsApp, and another $17 million this March for data breaches.
By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.